IT Service Management (ITSM) applied in the context of college or university settings to manage IT services offered to students, faculty, and staff. ITSM in higher education can help to ensure that IT services align with the needs of the college community, meet service level agreements, and support the institution's ov¬¬erall mission and goals. The IT department can establi¬¬sh a centralized service desk to handle incoming requests, incidents, and service requests from students, faculty, and staff. The IT department can use incident management processes to quickly resolve issues that may arise with IT services such as campus Wi-Fi, learning management systems, and other essential services. ITSM processes can help the IT department to define and manage service level agreements (SLAs) with different campus departments and users.

The proposed web-based application incorporates three main features. First Features involves raising queries regarding the issue to be solved. This part mainly focuses on creating customer account and validation of information. After registration customer can use the form to raise the ticket. Second step is acceptance and assignment of the job by Admin to the employees to work on it. Lastly the employees can accept the raised ticket by the employee, work on it and update the status of work completed. Second feature is Tracking of query using a unique ticket id which gets assigned during ticket creation. It will display query status to the customer and the Admin. Third feature is about query analysis which gives a detailed graphical report on the jobs that are assigned and worked upon.

The auxiliary features of this web-based application are creation of sessions which ensures the security of the customer data, forgot password retrieval and to update the profile. One of the security features is DOS (Denial of Service) which ensures no spam requests are accepted which will prevent overloading and failure of the server. 
